
. Route 53 is global

. Route53 : DNS port is on 53 and Route53 is DNS service.




Domain Name Service (DNS):
--------------------------
. DNS used to convert friendly domain names to IP address for computers.
. IP address are of two types : 
           - IPv4 : 32 bit address , already have 4 bill
           - IPv6 : 128 bit  or 340 undecillion addresses

. IPv6 CAN be used with AWS services as VPC supports IPv6

. Top level domain names : .com, .uk, .gov

. Domain Registrars : Domain names should be unique, so it will be maintained by some Registrars.

. SOA record (Start of Authority): detials of domain

. Name Server Records (NS) : Used by Top level domian servers to redirect traffic to Content DNS server.

. Address Records (A) : provides IP address of a server.

. ** Elastci Load Balancer (ELB) will only have a DNS name and no IP address

. TTL : Time to Leave

. Canonical Name (CName) : Pointing one dns server to point o another dns server.

. Alias Record : 
                - Similar to CName
                - Created by Amazon
                - useful for 
                           - Load Balancers ( as they don't have IPv4)
                           - websites created using S3
                           - cloudfront distributions
                           - ***** Alias record can be useful for Zone Apex ( Naked Domains) . i.e domians without any www 
                           - supports A and AAAA

. ** AWS charges for using CName and NO charge for Alias Record.



Route53 Routing Policies:
-------------------------

. Simple :
          Default Route Policy
          commonly used of we have only one resource that performs function for domain

. Weighted :
            serves traffic as per weight ( requirements )
            can configure Route 53 to send certain amount of traffic to a ELB and certain to another ELB

. Latency :
           Routes traffic based on lowest latency to end user
           Route 53 selects ELB based on lowest latency 

. Failover :
            useful for active/passive (primary/secondary) checkup
            Route 53 performs healthcheck of ELB's configured and directs traffic based on health of ELB

. Geolocation :
               Routes traffic to ELB based on Geo location of user

Notes:
------

. ** Elastci Load Balancer (ELB) will only have a DNS name and no IP address

. ** AWS charges for using CName and NO charge for Alias Record.

. Route 53 can support 50 domain names by default. To increase limit we need to contact AWS.

. Route 53 supports following records:
  A : IPv4 address
  AAAA : IPv6 address
  CAA : specify's who can provide CA's (certificate associates)
  CNAME : Same format as domain name ( kind of alias)
  MX : For email server (Priority and domain server)
  NAPTR : Name Authority Pointer, replace one name with another.
  NS : Name servers for hosted zone, which is domain name
  PTR : Same format as domain name
  SOA : State of Authority, details of doiman
  SPF : Sender Policy Framework, verify identity of email sender
  SRV : Four space value : priority, weight, port and domain name
  TXT : Contains one or more strings in   "

. Route53 uses AnyCast network for better performance.

. Can I create multiple hosted zones for the same domain name?  :  YES

. Does Amazon Route 53 also provide website hosting?  : NO
  website hosting services provided by AWS are : Lightsail, S3, EC2

. Does Amazon Route 53 support wildcard entries? YES

. Can I associate multiple IP addresses with a single record? : YES

. Can I use AWS CloudTrail logs to roll back changes to my hosted zones? NO

. Does Amazon Route 53 support DNSSEC? : Not now

. Does Route 52 support IPv6 : YES

. Does Amazon Route 53 support DNSSEC? : NO

. Can I point my zone apex (example.com versus www.example.com) at my Elastic Load Balancer? :: YES using Alias Record

. Traffic Policy VS Policy Record: Traffic Policy is a set of rules defined to route traffic (json format). In Policy Record creation we use Traffic Policy

. Can I create an Alias record pointing to a DNS name that is managed by a traffic policy? ::: NO

. Private DNS : Create DNS within our VPC , so we don't expose IP
